Engineer's Point Of View
------------------------

As a part of my transition of being a "wantrepreneuer" to entrepreneur. I've
been indulging on great amount of business and motivational literature. One of
them that I've listened recently and was highly recommended is [The E-Myth
Revisited: Why Most Small Businesses Don't Work and What to Do About It][1]. The
book has a lot of great concepts that are simple and sometimes almost obvious,
but sometimes it takes someone else's perspective to realize something obvious
and that book provides exactly that. The following summary has some points that
struct some chords with me and I want to make sure I can remember in the future.

Three Personalities To Run A Business
-------------------------------------

First idea in the book is the following; Entrepreneuer, manager and technician
are the three crucial roles that your business must posses in order to be
successful. **The most important is that all three must be equal in strength and
energy** or otherwise you are destined to fail. For example when a passionate
developer, or a technician like myself decides that he or she wants to build a
business, he start with what he knows the most, and that is building the
product. However since the only thing that a technician know is building a
product he ends up doing that for 85% of the time and maybe 10% would be spent
on being entrepreneur and 5% spent management. A technician is not conscious
that he doesn't know how to build a successful business. I completely agree and
admit that I have failed that principle before. I think I lack any kind of
entrepreneur or manager knowledge and experience so I just do what I know and
that is build. The book made me realize that I need to learn and master the
other 2 aspects of business in order to be successful.

Divide Roles And Make People Accountable
----------------------------------------

I've received a big dose of aha moments when I've learned the following concept.
First, you must write down all the positions that your business must have as if
it were already mature. You will have a Chief Executive Officer, a Chief
Operating Officer (COO), a Vice President of Sale, and Vice President of
Marketing, Vice President of Operations, all kinds of Managers and staff and so
on. Once you write all those positions down you assign people to those roles. If
it's just you and your partner then each of you will have many roles. But the
most important advice this book gives is that each of you must be accountable
for your role and not for anyone else's. For example, if you are VP of Marketing
your job is to oversee marketing and make sure you are acquiring new customers,
you are completely accountable for marketing. If you are having troubles finding
finding people, it's your fault and you should be accountable. An important
distinction also needs to be made when you perform each role, you must mentally
tell yourself that right now you are performing this role, so there is no
overlap. Other jobs like VP of Operations, Operations Manager and a technician
are also there and each is responsible for it's own role. As a manager you make
sure everything gets done by the process correctly, on time and there aren't any
blockages. As a technician you just do the work, and VP is responsible for the
strategic thinking and is also accountable for everything that has to do with
operations.

I have had an experience where there were many people in the company but there
weren't clearly defined roles and accountability, so you couldn't cut people who
were not contributing because you couldn't tell what their contribution was.



Work On The Business Rather Than In The Business
------------------------------------------------

Focus On Building A Business Rather Than Building A Product
-----------------------------------------------------------

Create A System For Average Employees
-------------------------------------



[1]: <http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0887307280/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0887307280&linkCode=as2&tag=sermassblo-20>


