published: false
----------------

The Master Engineer  
---------------------

I trully enjoy programming. To me it's the best job in the world. The best thing
about it is that it has no limit how much you can learn and how much better you
can get. I've been actively improving and studing for about 8 years and there is
still so much more I'd like to learn. I think the more I learn the more I
realize that I need more knowledge.

And like many engineers I passionately want to build my own thing. I would take
all that accumulated wealth of knowledge, pragmatism, and problem solving
ability and create a great application or a product. It would follow all the
good object oriented design principles, have an extensive suite of unit tests
and it will be easy to maintain and to change.

I have already attempted to build couple of products but they miserably failed.
Some didn't see any traction at all while one had a long run but platoed after
few years and just slowly died. I've always wondered what I was doing wrong. It
was definately not about programming everything was fine on that part.

The first book that truly hit a chord with me was Lean Startups. After reading
it I've realized that I'm not the only one who made that mistake and that there
is a way. Like most engineers, I felt into the trap of "build and pray" and was
destined to fail. Lean startup has some great advices but I didn't stop there.
I've been on a mission to learn on how to become a successful entrepreneur.



From Technitian To Entrepreneuer
--------------------------------

This book answered a lot of questions about why my past ventures have misirably
failed. First of all, when someone like me, a technitian, starts a business he
or she has a wrong mindset. A well run business has 3 equally important parts:
entreprenureal, managerial and technical. Entreprenureal is where you see
opportunities, a vision, you are able to figure out what is missing and can
anticipate future. Managerial is where you make sure everything is in order,
things get done and the system is followed perfectly. And technical is where you
build the actual product. When a developer starts working a product he focuses
mostly on the technical part, the only thing that he sees is that perfect
product, not realizing that in order for business to succeed you need all 3
parts. So you spent all that time and energy later to realize that your vision
was correctly wrong and either nobody needs your product, or your strategy is
poorly executed.

**If you want to have a successful business you need to spend have all 3 parts
equal.**

What that means is that I must learn how to become entreprenuer and manager if I
want a chance for my future business to succeed.

Work On The Business Rather Than In
-----------------------------------

Applying yourself to learning something new and challenging
-----------------------------------------------------------

You are no longer a developer, you are a business person
--------------------------------------------------------
